~Monte Carlo Simulations for spICP-TOFMS~
	Installation Guide for First Time Python/Anaconda Users
	Raven L. Buckman, Alex Gundlach-Graham
	Department of Chemistry
	Iowa State University, Ames, IA

Step 1) Anaconda and VS Code
	A) Go to the anaconda webpage. Download the appropriate and most recent software for your device
	   www.anaconda.com/downloads
	B) Write down the Python version number that you are downloading for future reference.
	C) Follow the onscreen instructions to download the free version. 
	D) Once the download is complete, you may open your Downloads folder (or wherever the file has been downloaded)
	E) For Windows, right-click the file and "Run as Administrator."
	   For Mac or Linux, double-click the file.
	F) Click Next, Continue, Agree, or I Agree on the first installation pages. 
	   Select the installation option that makes sense for you and your device.
	G) Click Continue or Next and follow the onscreen prompts to complete the installation.
	H) When the page asks if you want to install Microsoft VS Code, click Install Microsoft VS Code.
	   If VS Code is already installed on your device, the installer may ask you to update the software 
	   to the most recent version.
	I) Continue to follow any onscreen instructions, clicking Continue or Next to proceed through the installation steps, 
	   and then click Close or Finish on the last page.
Step 2) Opening Anaconda
	Mac
		A) Open Launch Pad and click Anaconda Navigator icon and open it.
		B) Click the Spotlight magnifying glass, start typing Anaconda, and then double-click Anaconda Navigator
		C) Open Finder and your Applications folder and double-click the Anaconda Navigator icon
		D) {Optional} Right-click on the Anaconda Navigator icon in the dock and select "Keep in Dock" for fast, easy access.
	Windows
		A) Open the Start menu, click Anaconda Navigator to open.
		B) Click the Start button, start typing Anaconda, and click on Anaconda Navigator on the Start menu when you see it
		C) {Optional} Right-click Anaconda Navigator and choose Pin to Start or right-click and choosse More -> Pin to Taskbar
Step 3) Writing Python in VS Code
	A) Open Anaconda Navigator.
	B) Locate and click the Launch button under VS Code.
	C) If prompted to make some decision regarding VS Code, you may skip these and exit the window.
	D) VS code is a generic code editor that works with several languages. To use VS Code with Python and Anaconda,
	   some VS Code extensions may be necessary. Click the Extensions icon in the left pane (puzzle piece). 
	   Note the following extensions: Anaconda Extension Pack, Python, and YAML. Ensure that these are enabled.
Step 4) Choosing the Python Interpreter
	A) Choose View -> Command Palette from VS Code's menu.
	B) Type Python and then click Python: Select Interpreter
	   Choose the Python version that matches your download (from Step 1B).
	   If you have several options with the same version number, choose the one that includes the names "base" and "conda".
Step 5) Writing Python Code
	A) In VS Code, choose View -> Terminal from the VS Code menu. A pane will appear along the bottom right.
	B) On the Terminal, type python and press Enter. You should see some information about Python followed by a >>> prompt.
	   That >>> prompt is your Python interpreter; if you type python code on this line and press Enter, the code will execute.
	C) Type 1+1 and press Enter. The answer should appear followed by another >>> prompt.
	   This ensures that your Python development environment is all set up and ready to use. This step does not need to be repeated.
	D) In the VS Code Terminal, press CTRL+D or type exit() and press Enter.
	   You should no longer see the >>> prompt.
	E) To close VS Code
		Windows: Click the Close (X) icon in the upper-right corner or choose File -> Quit from the menu bar.
		Mac: Click the red dot in the upper-left corner, or choose Code -> Quit Visual Studio Code from the menu.
	F) To close Anaconda Navigator
		Windows: Click the Close (X) icon in the upper-right corner or choose File -> Quit from the menu bar.
		Mac: Click the red dot in the upper-left corner, or choose Code -> Quit Anaconda Navigator from the menu.
Step 6) Using Python's Interactive Mode
	A) Open Anaconda Navigator, open VS Code by clicking the Launch button on the Anaconda home page.
	B) If you do not see the Terminal pane at the bottom of the window, choose View -> Terminal from the menu bar.
	C) If the word Terminal is not highlighted at the tope of the pane, click Terminal.
	D) The first prompt is typically for your computer's operating system, and shows the username of the account.
	E) At the operating system command prompt, type the following and press Enter to see what version of Python you're using.
	   python --version
	   You should see Python 3.x.x; if instead you see an error message, you will want to make sure that VS Code was launched 
	   from Anaconda not the Start menu or Launch Pad. If this does not resolve your error see Step 4.
	F) Launch the Python interpreter by typing the following command:
	   python
	   You should now see the >>> prompt.
	G) For further assistance, type help or help() into the command prompt. 
	H) To leave the interpreter, type exit() or CTRL-Z + Return to exit.
Step 7) Creating a Python Development Workspace
	A) If VS Code is not already open, launch it from Anaconda.
	B) Choose File -> Save Workspace As, and navigate to the folder where you want to save the workspace.
	C) Type a name for the workspace, and then click Save.
	D) Next, perform one of the following steps to adjust some VS Code settings to indicate the location of the saved workspace:
	   Windows: Choose File -> Preferences -> Settings
	   Mac: Choose Code -> Preferences -> Settings
	E) Click the Open Settings (JSON) icon in the top-right corner (puzzle piece adjacent).
	F) In the next window, select the entire line of code that starts with "python.pythonpath"
	G) Right-click the selected code and choose Copy to copy it to the clipboard
	H) Click the Split Editor Right icon, near the top-right corner (two side-by-side pages). Two copies of settings.json should 
	   appear side-by-side.
	I) Choose View -> Command Palette. Type open and the select Preferences: Open Workspace Settings(JSON).
	J) Click between the setting's curly braces and past the lines of code there.
	K) Choose File -> Save from the VS Code menu.
	L) Close the Settings and User Settings tabs by clicking the X on the right side of each tab.
	M) Close VS Code, and the close Anaconda.
Step 8) Using the Monte Carlo Simulation Code from GitHub
	A) Launch https://github.com/TOFMS-GG-Group/MonteCarloSimulations in your preferred internet browser.
	B) Download the latest version of the MonteCarloSimulations.py file
	C) Move this file to the same location as the Python Workspace that was created in Step 7.
	D) Launch VS Code from the Anaconda Navigator home page.
	E) Open the file from the Explorer pane (left, two overlapping pages). 
	F) All necessary pacakges should install automatically in the first 11 lines of the code.
	G) User-defined parameters are available between lines 50 and 58. 
	   Particle detection information should be formatted according to the template available on the previously mentioned GitHub page.
	H) The Monte Carlo Simulations should proceed unimpinged and figures will pop-up periodically. To procceed, click the X on the top-right of the figure.
	   Data can be saved/exported from the simulations should the user specify "WriteInfo" as True